# v2.0.0 to v3.0.0

To ensure a smooth migration from version 2.0.0 to 3.0.0, please follow these steps carefully. We recommend starting by comparing your `package.json` file with the template’s `package.json` file and updating all dependencies accordingly.

## Middleware

In this release, we have removed the `src/middleware.ts` file. Let us understand why we have done this.

We had written all the logic for Authentication and Translation in the `src/middleware.ts` file. Next.js suggests to create a middleware file for both the logics (you may refer the same from [here](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) for Translation and [here](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/authentication) for Authentication) and we did exactly the same.

After doing this, we had deployed our demos on Vercel. After sometime we realized that on Vercel, there were too many `Edge Middleware Invocations`. This was because the middleware was being invoked on every request. This was not the expected behavior. We further realized that many of our users might face the same issue and for no reason, they might have to pay more for the same.

So, we decided to remove the middleware and wrote all the logic in the respective HOCs. This way, the logic will only be invoked when the respective component is rendered. We have created three HOCs for the same and can be found in the `src/hocs` folder. The HOCs are as follows:

1. `AuthGuard`: This HOC will check if the user is authenticated or not. If the user is not authenticated, it will redirect the user to the login page. If you are visiting any protected route, you will be redirected to the login page
2. `GuestOnlyRoute`: This HOC will check if the user is authenticated or not. If the user is authenticated, it will redirect the user to the dashboard page. If you are visiting any guest-only route (such as the login page), you will be redirected to the dashboard page
3. `TranslationWrapper`: This HOC will check whether there is any language in the current URL. If not, it will redirect the user to the same URL with the default language.

Please refer [here](/docs/guide/migration/v2.0.0-to-v3.0.0#authentication) for migrating the Authentication and [here](/docs/guide/migration/v2.0.0-to-v3.0.0#translation-i18n) for migrating the Translation.

We've made a couple of changes to how we handle the home page URL. The `HOME_PAGE_URL` variable has been moved from the `src/middleware.ts` file to the `src/configs/themeConfig`.ts file and renamed to `homePageUrl`. Additionally, the home page URL (`/dashboards/crm`) is now also written in the `next.config.mjs` file. If you need to update the home page URL, please remember to change it in both files.

## Folder Structure Changes

We have made changes to the folder structure, including the introduction of `public routes`, `private routes`, and `guest-only routes`, along with HOCs for user authorization. For instance, `guest-only` routes are for pages like Login, Registration, and Forgot Password, accessible only to unauthenticated users.

For example, `dashboard` pages are considered as private page which are accessible only to authenticated users. So we have moved the dashboard pages to the `(private)` folder and `Login`, `Register`, `Forgot Password` pages to the `(guest-only)` folder. `Front pages` are accessible to all users, so they are kept in the root folder which means public routes.

For more details, refer to [this](/docs/guide/authentication/securing-page) link so that you can bifurcate your routes accordingly.

## Authentication

We have made changes to the authentication process, including the introduction of `HOCs` and removed the `middleware` file. To migrate:

1. Create `(private)` folder in the `(dashboard)` folder and move all the content from the `src/app/[lang]/(dashboard)` folder to the `src/app/[lang]/(dashboard)/(private)` folder.

2. Create `(guest-only)` folder in the `(blank-layout-pages)` folder and move the `Login`, `Register`, and `Forgot Password` pages to the `src/app/[lang]/(blank-layout-pages)/(guest-only)` folder.

3. Copy the following files from the template to your project:

    - `src/hocs/AuthGuard.tsx`
    - `src/hocs/GuestOnlyRoute.tsx`
    - `src/components/AuthRedirect.tsx`
    - `src/app/[lang]/(blank-layout-pages)/(guest-only)/layout.tsx`
  
4. Wrap your `src/app/[lang]/(dashboard)/(private)/layout.tsx` file with the `AuthGuard` component as shown below:

    ```tsx
    const Layout = async ({ children, params }: ChildrenType & { params: { lang: Locale } }) => {
      return (
        ...
        <AuthGuard>
          <html {/* other props */}>
            ...
          </html>
        </AuthGuard>
        ...
      )
    }

    export default Layout
    ```

You may refer to [this](/docs/guide/authentication/securing-page) link for more information on securing pages.

## Translation (i18n)

We have removed the `translation` logic from the middleware file as the `src/middleware.ts` file has been removed from the template. To migrate:

1. Copy the `src/hocs/TranslationWrapper.tsx` and `src/components/LangRedirect.tsx` files from the template to your project.

2. Wrap your `src/app/[lang]/layout.tsx` file with the `TranslationWrapper` component as shown below:

    ```tsx
    const RootLayout = ({ children, params }: ChildrenType & { params: { lang: Locale } }) => {
      return (
        <TranslationWrapper {/* other props */}>
          <html {/* other props */}>
            ...
          </html>
        </TranslationWrapper>
      )
    }

    export default RootLayout
    ```

## Search Library Update

In this update, we have replaced the `kbar` search library with the [cmdk](https://github.com/pacocoursey/cmdk) search library because `cmdk` provides timely package updates, whereas `kbar` has not been updated for a long time and also console warnings appears. Since `cmdk` is a completely new library, a direct upgrade is not possible.

**Steps to Migrate:**

1. Replace your `src/components/layout/shared/search` folder with the template's `src/components/layout/shared/search` folder.

2. Replace your `src/data/searchData.ts` file with the template's `src/data/searchData.ts` file.

## Redux Store

We have introduced `redux` store. To migrate:

1. Copy the `src/redux-store` folder from the template to your project.

2. Wrap your app with the `ReduxProvider` component in the `src/components/Providers.tsx` file as shown below:

    ```tsx
    const Providers = () => {
      return (
        ...
        <ReduxProvider>{children}</ReduxProvider>
        ...
      )
    }

    export default Providers
    ```

### Calendar App

The `calendar` app has been rebuilt using `redux`, replacing the old `useReducer()` implementation. Manual changes to each file is not possible and thus, the entire `calendar` app must be replaced with the new version.

**Steps to Migrate:**

1. Replace your `src/views/apps/calendar` folder with the template's `src/views/apps/calendar` folder.

2. Replace your `src/fake-db/apps/calendar` folder with the template's `src/fake-db/apps/calendar` folder.

3. Add the redux store for the calendar, found in `src/redux-store`. Do not forget to copy the `src/redux-store/slices/calendar.ts` file.

## exactMatch and activeUrl

In this update, we have introduced the `exactMatch` and `activeUrl` props to make a menu item active based on the current dynamic URL. You may refer to [this](/docs/menu-examples/vertical-examples/menu-item/exact-match-and-active-url) for verticalMenu and [this](/docs/menu-examples/horizontal-examples/menu-item/exact-match-and-active-url) for horizontalMenu.

## Exclude Lang

In this update, we introduced the `excludeLang` prop for greater flexibility in URL localization for dynamic menus and search. This prop allows you to exclude specific URLs from localization, making it easier to manage menu and search items that should not be translated.

**Steps to Migrate:**

- For menuData files:

  1. Locate your dynamic menu configuration file (`verticalMenuData.tsx` or `horizontalMenuData.tsx`) in the `src/data/navigation` folder.

  2. Replace your `src/types/menuTypes.ts` file with the template's `src/types/menuTypes.ts` file.

  3. Add the `excludeLang : true` prop to the menu items that should not be localized.
   
   We have added the `excludeLang` prop for the `front-pages`. You may refer to below example:

   ```tsx
    {
      label: dictionary['navigation'].landing,
      href: '/front-pages/landing-page',
      target: '_blank',
      excludeLang: true
    }
    ```

- For searchData file:

  1. Locate `src/data/searchData.ts` file.

  2. Add `excludeLang?: boolean` in the `SearchData` type.

  3. Add the `excludeLang` prop to the search items that should not be localized.
   
    We have added the `excludeLang` prop for the `front-pages`. You may refer to below example:
  
    ```tsx
    {
      id: '1',
      name: 'Landing Front',
      url: '/front-pages/landing-page',
      excludeLang: true,
      icon: 'ri-article-line',
      section: 'Front Pages'
    }
    ```

For detailed examples and more information on using `excludeLang`, refer to the [Vertical Menu](/docs/menu-examples/vertical-examples/menu-render/exclude-lang) and [Horizontal Menu](/docs/menu-examples/horizontal-examples/menu-render/exclude-lang) documentation.

## Logo Component

In this update, we have removed the `Link` component from the `Logo` component. To migrate:

1. Replace your `src/components/layout/shared/Logo.tsx` file with the `src/components/layout/shared/Logo.tsx` file from the template.

2. Ensure that you remove any occurrences of the `component` prop associated with the `Logo` component.

If you require the `Logo` to function as a link, wrap it with the `Link` component from `next/Link` to achieve the desired redirection.

